[Music]
on tonight's panel Matt Hancock
Secretary of State for Health under
Theresa May and Boris Johnson
Anneliese dogs are former MEP now
Labour's shadow Treasury Minister Philip
a Whitford a consultant surgeon for many
years and health spokesperson at
Westminster for the SNP
editor of the men's lifestyle magazine
loaded in the naughties a former Labour
Party supporter elected as an MEP for
the brexit party last May martin dog
neck and chief executive of Bernardo's
the oldest and biggest children's
charity in the UK David power
[Music]
welcome to our panel to our audience
here and of course you at home joining
the conversation you can argue along in
the usual way using hashtag beauty on
Facebook on Instagram and on Twitter
right let's start with our first
question tonight which is from and you
Trivedi thank you should I be jumping
for joy or crying in light of the new
brexit plan o so Matt have you been
jumping for joy today well I think it's
a very spring rabbit I think it's a very
good deal and I'm I'm very pleased that
we've got a deal
I think it's incredibly important that
we deliver on the result of the
referendum because we're a democracy and
that's what democracies do I think the
deal is a good one for the UK I think
it's a good one for Northern Ireland and
I think it's obviously don't share that
view well I think it's good for Northern
Ireland because Northern I'll get the
best of both worlds they retain there's
no hard border on the island of Ireland
there'll be no checks at or near the
border and yet they are Northern Ireland
remains and of course within the UK and
within the UK customs arrangements and I
think it's a it's a good deal and
crucially crucially after three and a
half years almost after the referendum
this deal should be backed by my
colleagues Westminster on Saturday and
then we can get this done and we can
move forward and concentrate on all the
other things that matter and deliver on
the referendum and then move the country
forward
so when Boris Johnson said leave
Northern Ireland behind as an economic
semi colony of the EU damage to the
fabric of the union with regulatory
checks and even customs controls between
Great Britain and Northern Ireland no
British Conservative government could or
should sign up to any such arrangement
he said that last year how is that not
what he's doing now well that that isn't
the in the deep
no the the Northern Ireland and Great
Britain leave the European Union within
the same customs arrangement and they
will be customs checks for some Goods
going between Great Britain and Northern
Ireland this is it in order to be able
to leave we're leaving the whole country
leaving together
with one within the UK customs
arrangement as opposed to leaving the
whole country within the customs union
but more important than that more
important than that this deal allows us
to move the country forward
we've been riven by this brexit rao for
more than three years and this deal
allows us to get brexit done crying or
jumping for joy
Annelise well certainly not very happy I
mean I'm not crying because I want to
try and get something done about this
I'm freed that actually what Mark said
particularly about the north and Irish
arrangements just is not what's written
in paper as part of that deal actually
it says for any goods in Northern
Ireland's there is going to be exported
or that could become part of an export
or where there might need to be extra
checks it will be part of the EU customs
union so what you would have is two
different customs approaches occurring
at the same time well maybe you can
explain why all those Northern Ireland
businesses that are concerned about this
have got it wrong and why your
government are the only people who are
seen that this will be simple to operate
but I don't think anybody else is but of
course that's even without talking about
the fact that this deal just opens us up
to years of wrangling because it says we
don't have to keep in step with the EU
on working rights or environmental
protections or consumer standards so we
could have years and years of argument
with the EU after this and indeed with
other countries particularly with the
u.s. announced would open us up to a
trade deal with the US but we could see
our working right slashed our
environmental protections though go to
the wall and I just don't think that's
what people voted for when they voted to
leave so I don't think this is the deal
that you should be said
let's see what people think of it
selling in the blue sweater
hey if Boris really wants to support the
DUP why don't you just pay him off as
Teresa did two years ago okay that's one
approach me I talked you about that Matt
yes the woman the glasses is anybody
else sick and tired of listening to
Boris Johnson's cabinet members
constantly repeating the same
unconvincing messages over and over
again as if we're going to fall for it
as if we actually believed that on
Saturday it's all going to come right
and you're going to suddenly start
spending money on the NHS on public
services because you aren't and nobody
believes you anymore
and nobody will believe you ever again
that is exact by getting this deal
through Parliament on Saturday that is
exactly what we usually want and I
understand how frustrating it is for
people when going on and let's get it
done and when you come to the NHS and
the money that we can spend on the NHS
here in Leicester we are rebuilding the
hospital and we're able to do that
because the economy is strong and with
this deal the economy will stay strong
and we can get breakfast greeting one of
the other hospitals there may be one
that you're improving but there's
another one that you're doing pounds
into Leicester and we're able to back
the NHS in Leicester because with this
deal the economy will be strong and will
deliver on the result of the referendum
with a cabinet we will continue to be
lied to over and over again
[Applause]
here we are after three and a half years
and we're at the same place where we
were a few years back there's been no
progress you are utterly utterly out of
tune with the rest of the public here
you will not represent us what we voted
you in for and it's a crying shame that
we're at least having you right here
right now you better negotiate on
Saturday because it concerns our futures
our children's futures and this is
something that you ought to hang your
heads in shame if you get it wrong I
just wanted to ask if you've been to the
hospitals in Leicester they're filthy
um yeah absolutely I was there about a
month ago in the hospital yeah I was
there at the hospital we've rebuilt the
A&E which is much better but the rest of
it absolutely needs rebuilding we're
putting 450 million pounds into
Leicester hospitals because they are not
good enough at the moment
I can't believe the Labour Party's
against it but we're doing that again so
I just think you've got to be honest
about the reality they're disorganized
they're inefficient well it's not a
matter it's not a case of throwing money
at it but this hospital in Leicester and
many of others around the country need
to be turned around the we need more
people working in them as well and we're
gonna do that and let's get on to
debating things like the NHS and to do
that we can get brexit done and then we
can get on to the NHS and all the other
things that we need to talk about as a
country the man there yes with the the
Dodger coalition it's all well and good
saying that you're gay invest Lowe's
ammonia's celesta Royal Infirmary
what about glen field or the general can
you guarantee that there's going to be a
net benefits of beds in terms of yes you
know as a whole yes already less the
royal infirmary is these two crammed
there's no at the polls yes the roads
they're all this exit Ruffy how's
it gonna cope with it yes yes we can do
all of those things and we've guaranteed
the money to Leicester
and it's coming in the next couple yeah
let me just drag us back to the original
question which is about the brexit plan
Javid what was your sense we heard to be
absolutely honest with you I mean like
most of this audience and all the
millions of people watching the program
I don't know whether it's a jump for joy
or a cry situation and this is part the
problem that we found ourselves Indian
the politicians with great respect you
know are having a field day in debating
all of these are arguing disagreeing
arguing and disagreeing again and who
knows what's going to happen on Saturday
what we need to bring it back to is the
the Joe's and the AB doors and their
records and the Mary's out there in this
audience and a protester and the rest of
the UK who are suffering at the moment
suffering one because they don't know
what's to come so the uncertainty the
lack of confidence in the future their
fears for their children as the
gentleman was saying and remember these
are the children who are going to live
with the consequences of this decision
far far longer than whatever than our
lifetimes we've got to get it right now
there is some hope I think it's good to
see at least that there's been some
progress today I personally I wasn't
expecting anything today that's you know
let's let's give credit where it's due
something has been put on the table and
it's going to be debated I think our
politicians have got a huge
responsibility on Saturday to really
test out the detail of what's been
presented my test for exam is would be
that make sure that whatever deal if
this deal is suitable if you agree it
that it is manageable in terms of the
economic shock risk for this country
because if there is a shock the one that
we are expecting you know don't know
deal would have been much worse I think
it's going to affect all of our lives in
ways that we can't predict yet you know
in terms of education employment job
prospects skills housing you name it
people losing faith in the government
and in their own futures we cannot allow
that to happen so deploy that test be
absolutely sure you're going to sign us
up to this because you have that power
then make sure that we passed that test
make sure that there's a medium and long
term plan as well that you're not just
getting yourself out of a sticky wicket
now because that's what politicians can
do very easily there's got to be a
longer term
because we're gonna have to live with
this for years to come does anyone in
the audience support the deal of the
Boris Johnson is yes one person what no
we got to two people to 300 yes let's
hear coming the white D and so I think
we've had enough now it's gone on as we
mentioned for three and a half years and
although we have reached an impasse
arguably you can say that it's caused by
some strong break it's breaks tears who
haven't supported Theresa Mays deal but
there's also accountability on the other
side of MPs who have opposed the deal
time after time and I think it's clear
now more than ever that opposing MPs
will never support a deal brought by
this government no matter how good it is
how bad it is and if on Saturday we
don't support this deal will they take
accountability and responsibility if we
leave with no deal so really as good as
good or bad as the deal is it's sort of
like we've waited a long time for this
it's finally happened I think we're just
gonna take itself for it because let's
be real
we're gonna wait another six months
another 12 months then in 24 months till
we get another deal Mike a slightly
better every time but we haven't got the
time we voted leave that's it we need to
leave not otherwise no doors the only
other option I can think so you're
thinking any deal will do yeah any any
deal at this point because this sort of
we saw from the last deal that it just
got shut down three times and if it's
gonna get shut down three times more
than three times more than three times
more there's no point right just go
Marty so I tell who is jumping for joy
Bastille Michel Barnier Emmanuel macron
they were beaming with delight today and
on the way over here I heard a Belgian
MEP on the brexit steering committee
called this deal Theresa Mays deal
without the backstop three people unless
to support it and I think on Saturday it
will be voted down and your lot
Corbin today said they won't vote for it
no matter what we haven't even seen the
deal
and you were going to vote it down
betrayed with it five million it's five
million labor voters including myself
about the label all my life until going
to this were betrayed by your party
[Music]
position what my position of our
position is this get Boris credit this
is not the worst deal in history it's
the second worst deal in history when
you go through this deal and I've
actually been through this in Brussels
today here is the small print you starts
a little political declaration they're
all there are key things which I'll not
brexit the so-called level playing field
means we cannot do trade deals with the
rest of the world on more favorable
terms and the EU already do them we're
going into business deals with our hands
tied behind our backs
the fishing opportunity is quite clearly
states here that we have shared stocks
and quota shares we will not get back
control of our fishing waters this is an
absolute betrayal of our coastal
communities including in Scotland and
the more you look into its military
alignment and regulatory alignment
foreign aid alignment this is brexit in
name only with once again betrayed the
British people three and a half years in
we cannot move forward and the public
have every right to feel furious about
this in my opinion
I mean I think the slogan get brexit
done and then we do other things is
nonsense I mean this isn't the this is
actually the bloke sleeping in the spare
room you know we haven't got anywhere
near the divorce so this is the
beginning of the beginning I did wonder
analogy was going to do so so in actual
fact primitive brexit will be hanging
over the UK for the next decade there is
no question about that
and this idea get brexit done you know I
mean if you had someone who you were
trying to talk down from self-harm would
you just go yeah I'm fed up now just get
on with it
no you wouldn't and the thing is there
is nothing in this deal that would be
remotely like what we have now and two
words that are missing from it one is
frictionless and the other one is
Scotland Scotland doesn't get a mention
anyway and I'm sorry you talked about
fishing opportunities well my
constituency is a fishing constituency
where we catch langoustine 85% of which
goes to Europe Northern Ireland fishing
boats are just off our coast they will
be able to land through Northern Ireland
and you know I'm from Northern Ireland I
don't begrudge that but fishing on the
west coast of Scotland will be
absolutely hammered by this and as
someone who spent 33 years in the NHS
everyone's NHS will be hammered by this
how many Europeans have ever looked
after you as doctors or nurses these are
the people who look after us these are
the people who work in our universities
doing research we are losing so many
health benefits by coming out of Europe
including the wee plastic card if you're
sensible you have it in your wallet you
know we talked about avoid No Deal
because we'll have medicine shortages
the end place is a Canada style
free-trade agreement
that means we are a long way from Europe
that means there is lots of friction and
we lose a lot of options and for us in
Scotland our European citizens are
critical both to our public services but
also our rural communities and we can't
afford to lose freedom of movement it's
been a huge benefit every
single one of us and many of our young
pardon me many of our young people I
just like to say something that I never
thought I'd leave my mouth which is I
think Boris Johnson has done a brilliant
job with going over there everyone said
everybody said all you can he won't do
this you can't do that you know what I
mean but he actually is proving
everybody wrong and from my perspective
it seems to me that no matter you know
he's just knocking things out of the
park and people just can't stand it and
that's really got you know people like
myself like more interested again now
actually this guy wants to do it for the
people wants to do it and he's really
pushing forward now another point I'm
going to make is the DUP and the EU seem
to be really levering the island
backstop thing for the whole of briggsie
these thousands of issues I'm sure to do
with brexit but it's always to do with
the Good Friday Agreement the DUP the
Northern Ireland backstop all this I'm
like well what's why does that one issue
stop and put a big break on the whole
thing and we have to negotiate around
that um why doesn't it you know it's
gonna sound crazy but island being
referred to as islet the island of
Ireland why don't we try and just get
that as an island again and then we can
carry on with no longer have as part of
the United Kingdom and the whole of
Ireland
well the Scottish government put forward
a compromise we were the free were
suggesting that no but we are s are a
compromise in Scotland's place in Europe
in December 16 so nearly three years ago
was to respect that two of the nations
of the supposed precious Union had voted
to remain so yes we'd be out of the EU
but to allow both nations to stay in the
single market impossible and yet we'd
we'd have stayed part of the United
Kingdom but we'd have been allowed to
have a single market and customs union
Northern Ireland and Scotland we would
have an in the United Kingdom
yeah a quite a different United Kingdom
where we were promised the only way that
we remain in the EU was to vote no
reportable as a kingdom yeah and you've
completely ignored us
three years we voted to remain were not
mentioned in the deal we've been treated
with contempt and yet our solution of
both nations being in single market and
customs union were to solve the Irish
border issue overnight I think that this
is acting this is a good deal I think
many people said that we would never
pull it off and the Boris Johnson would
never pull it we when I pulled out of
the leadership race I backed Boris
because he had the biggest chance of
anyone of getting a deal and that's
exactly what he's done and I think the
most extraordinary spec spectacle today
of many spectacles today has been Nigel
Faraj and the brexit party announcing
they want to delay brexit the big news l
say what actually happened well I read
it on Twitter also true actually
happened is that the brexit party has
been consistent and we want to leave
with a clean break breakfast on October
31st that's now not going to be possible
and I do I don't even think Boris is do
you or do you think I don't get bolted
through on Saturday yes and this at the
second referendum and the SNP want
second referendum and the Liberal
Democrats wants that's what they're
heading for that they're using this as
another delaying tactic to push for a
second referendum and what's even gonna
be on that ticket
will we even have a proper leave on that
ticket will it be remain and an aversion
or hang on you're amazing yes let's hear
it
[Music]